Upload marketing page for FinOps alerts (#1396)
microsoft/finops-toolkit: docs/finops-alerts.md

---
layout: default
title: FinOps Alerts
browser: FinOps Alerts - Monitor your Azure environment for optimization
nav_order: 40
description: 'FinOps Alerts is your all-in-one solution for proactive cloud cost management.'
permalink: /finops-alerts
#customer intent: As a Finops practitioner, I need to learn about FinOps Alerts
---

<span class="fs-9 d-block mb-4">FinOps Alerts</span>
Monitor your Azure environment for optimization.
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

<a class="btn btn-primary fs-5 mb-4 mb-md-0 mr-4" href="#deploy">Deploy</a>
<a class="btn fs-5 mb-4 mb-md-0 mr-4" target="_blank" href="https://learn.microsoft.com/cloud-computing/finops/toolkit/finops-alert/overview">Documentation</a>

---

Designed with flexibility in mind, FinOps lens runs on a fully configurable schedule, continuously scanning your selected Azure subscriptions for idle resources.

<div id="whats-new" class="m-0 p-4" style="background-color:#edf; border:solid 1px #609;">
    <h3 class="m-0 mb-4">What's new in March 2025<span class="ftk-version">v0.8</span></h3>
    <p class="mt-2 mb-0">

>         February released v1 of the solution.

Author: Got it.

    </p>
    <p class="mt-2 mb-0 ftk-externallink"><a target="_blank" href="https://learn.microsoft.com/cloud-computing/finops/toolkit/changelog">See all changes</a></p>
</div>
<a name="features"></a>

## FinOps Alerts features

<div class="ftk-gallery">
    <div class="ftk-tile">
        <div>💹 Idle resource monitoring</div>
        <div>It scans selected subscriptions for idle resources that may increase costs.</div>
    </div>
    <div class="ftk-tile">

>         <div>📧 Automated notifications</div>
>         <div>Once idle resources are detected, the system sends alerts.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <div>📧 Automated notifications</div>
        <div>Get notified when idle resources are detected and take control of your environment.</div>
```

    </div>
    <div class="ftk-tile">

>         <div>🔔 Customizable alerts</div>
>         <div>Users can customize email subjects, recipients, and subscription IDs to fine-tune the alerts.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <div>🔔 Customize alerts</div>
        <div>Tune alerts to reach key stakeholders, take new actions, and more!</div>
```

    </div>
    <div class="ftk-tile">
        <div>📃 Review resource utilization</div>

>         <div>Track resource inventory and utilization of targeted services.<br>&nbsp;</div>

Reviewer: Make sure this header doesn't wrap by default. Same with other sections, but we want all sections to be the same number of lines on a full-screen window. Only add the break and space if needed to align the sections.

    </div>
</div>
<a name="deploy"></a>

## Deploy FinOps Alerts

> FinOps alerts works best with the <strong>Owner</strong> role. See template details for least-privilege roles

Author: We could get away with Contributor + User Access Admin (there's role assignments on the MI) and the template details should have been omitted in another commit

> <a class="btn mb-4 mb-md-0 mr-4" target="_blank" href="">Deploy to Azure</a>

Author: Just added

> <a target="_blank" href="https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/InProductFeedbackBlade/extensionName/FinOpsToolkit/cesQuestion/How%20easy%20or%20hard%20is%20it%20to%20use%20Azure%20Optimization%20Engine%3F/cvaQuestion/How%20valuable%20are%20Azure%20Optimization%20Engine%3F/surveyId/FTK0.8/bladeName/AOE/featureName/Marketing.Deploy">💜 Give feedback</a>

Author: Meant to change this in a future commit

---
layout: default
title: FinOps alerts
browser: FinOps alerts - Monitor your Azure environment for optimization
nav_order: 35
description: 'Accelerate your cost optimization efforts with scheduled notifications that continuously monitor your cloud environment, empowering you to make informed decisions without the hassle.'
permalink: /alerts
#customer intent: As a Finops practitioner, I need to learn about FinOps Alerts
---

<span class="fs-9 d-block mb-4">FinOps alerts</span>
Accelerate your cost optimization efforts with scheduled notifications that continuously monitor your cloud environment, empowering you to make informed decisions without the hassle.
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

<a class="btn btn-primary fs-5 mb-4 mb-md-0 mr-4" href="#deploy">Deploy</a>

> <a class="btn fs-5 mb-4 mb-md-0 mr-4" target="_blank" href="https://learn.microsoft.com/cloud-computing/finops/toolkit/alerts/overview">Documentation</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a class="btn fs-5 mb-4 mb-md-0 mr-4" target="_blank" href="https://learn.microsoft.com/cloud-computing/finops/toolkit/alerts/finops-alerts-overview">Documentation</a>
```
